.TH "CDDA2TRACK" 1 "April 2021" "" "Compact Disc Extractor"
.SH NAME
cdda2track \- extract audio files
.SH SYNOPSIS
cdda2track [OPTIONS] [track 1] [track 2] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
cdda2track extracts audio files from a compact disc and encodes them to tracks. If track numbers are given, extracts only those tracks. Otherwise, extracts the entire disc.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
show a list of options and exit
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-interactive\fR
edit metadata and encoding options in interactive mode prior to extracting disc
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-cdrom\fR=\fICDROM\fR
the CD-ROM device to extract audio from
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-speed\fR=\fISPEED\fR
the speed to extract audio data at
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR=\fIVERBOSITY\fR
The level of output to display. Choose between 'normal', 'quiet' and 'debug'.
.SH EXTRACTION OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-type\fR=\fITYPE\fR
The audio format of the extracted audio tracks. For a list of available audio formats, try: -t help.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quality\fR=\fIQUALITY\fR
The desired quality of the extracted tracks. For a list of available quality modes for a given format, try: -q help
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-dir\fR=\fIDIRECTORY\fR
The target directory for the extracted tracks. If none is given, the current working directory is used. If the target directory does not exist, it will be created automatically.
.TP
\fB\-\-format\fR=\fISTRING\fR
The format string to use for new filenames. Template fields are replaced with metadata values when new tracks are created. All other text is left as-is. If this option is omitted, a default format string is used.
.SH CD LOOKUP OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-musicbrainz\-server\fR=\fIHOSTNAME\fR
the MusicBrainz server name to query for metadata
.TP
\fB\-\-musicbrainz\-port\fR=\fIPORT\fR
the MusicBrainz port to query for metadata
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-musicbrainz\fR
don't query MusicBrainz for metadata
.TP
\fB\-\-freedb\-server\fR=\fIHOSTNAME\fR
the FreeDB server name to query for metadata
.TP
\fB\-\-freedb\-port\fR=\fIPORT\fR
the FreeDB port to query for metadata
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-freedb\fR
don't query FreeDB for metadata
.TP
\fB\-D\fR, \fB\-\-default\fR
When multiple metadata choices are available, select the first one automatically. This option has no effect when used with -I
.SH METADATA OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-album\-number\fR=\fINUMBER\fR
the album number of this CD, if it is one in a series of albums
.TP
\fB\-\-album\-total\fR=\fINUMBER\fR
the total number of albums in this CD's set, if it is one in a series of albums
.TP
\fB\-\-replay\-gain\fR
add ReplayGain metadata to newly created tracks
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-replay\-gain\fR
do not add ReplayGain metadata to newly created tracks
.SH ACCURATERIP
Extracted tracks are automatically verified against AccurateRip's online database. The confidence level is the number of other people who have the same rip, so a larger value indicates one's own rip is consistent with those of others. However, not finding one's rip in the AccurateRip database does not necessarily mean the rip is bad; the CD may be new, rare, or a different pressing than the one in the database.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
Extract all of the tracks from /dev/cdrom as FLAC files at the default quality:
.IP
cdda2track -t flac -c /dev/cdrom

.SH FORMAT STRING FIELDS
.TS
tab(:);
| c   s |
| c | c |
| r | l |.
_
Template Fields
Key:Value
=
\fC%(track_number)2.2d\fR:the track's number on the CD
\fC%(track_total)d\fR:the total number of tracks on the CD
\fC%(album_number)d\fR:the CD's album number
\fC%(album_total)d\fR:the total number of CDs in the set
\fC%(album_track_number)s\fR:combination of album and track number
\fC%(track_name)s\fR:the track's name
\fC%(album_name)s\fR:the album's name
\fC%(artist_name)s\fR:the track's artist name
\fC%(performer_name)s\fR:the track's performer name
\fC%(composer_name)s\fR:the track's composer name
\fC%(conductor_name)s\fR:the track's conductor name
\fC%(media)s\fR:the track's source media
\fC%(ISRC)s\fR:the track's ISRC
\fC%(catalog)s\fR:the track's catalog number
\fC%(copyright)s\fR:the track's copyright information
\fC%(publisher)s\fR:the track's publisher
\fC%(year)s\fR:the track's publication year
\fC%(date)s\fR:the track's original recording date
\fC%(suffix)s\fR:the track's suffix
\fC%(basename)s\fR:the track's original name, without suffix
_
.TE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR audiotools-config (1),
.BR audiotools.cfg (5),
.BR cddainfo (1),
.BR cddaplay (1),
.BR coverdump (1),
.BR covertag (1),
.BR coverview (1),
.BR dvda2track (1),
.BR dvdainfo (1),
.BR track2cdda (1),
.BR track2track (1),
.BR trackcat (1),
.BR trackcmp (1),
.BR trackinfo (1),
.BR tracklength (1),
.BR tracklint (1),
.BR trackplay (1),
.BR trackrename (1),
.BR tracksplit (1),
.BR tracktag (1),
.BR trackverify (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Brian Langenberger
