.TH "DVDA2TRACK" 1 "April 2021" "" "DVD-Audio Extractor"
.SH NAME
dvda2track \- extract audio tracks
.SH SYNOPSIS
dvda2track [OPTIONS] [track 1] [track 2] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
dvda2track extracts audio files from a mounted DVD-Audio disc and encodes them to tracks. If track numbers are given, extracts only those tracks from the given title. Otherwise it extracts the entire title.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
show a list of options and exit
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-interactive\fR
edit metadata and encoding options in interactive mode prior to extracting disc
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-cdrom\fR=\fICDROM\fR
the DVD-ROM device the disc is mounted to
.TP
\fB\-A\fR, \fB\-\-audio\-ts\fR=\fIDIR\fR
the path to the mounted disc's "AUDIO_TS" directory
.TP
\fB\-\-title\fR=\fITITLE\fR
the title number to extract tracks from
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR=\fIVERBOSITY\fR
The level of output to display. Choose between 'normal', 'quiet' and 'debug'.
.SH EXTRACTION OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-type\fR=\fITYPE\fR
The audio format of the extracted audio tracks. For a list of available audio formats, try: -t help.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quality\fR=\fIQUALITY\fR
The desired quality of the extracted tracks. For a list of available quality modes for a given format, try: -q help
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-dir\fR=\fIDIRECTORY\fR
The target directory for the extracted tracks. If none is given, the current working directory is used. If the target directory does not exist, it will be created automatically.
.TP
\fB\-\-format\fR=\fISTRING\fR
The format string to use for new filenames. Template fields are replaced with metadata values when new tracks are created. All other text is left as-is. If this option is omitted, a default format string is used.
.SH DVD-A LOOKUP OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-musicbrainz\-server\fR=\fIHOSTNAME\fR
the MusicBrainz server name to query for metadata
.TP
\fB\-\-musicbrainz\-port\fR=\fIPORT\fR
the MusicBrainz port to query for metadata
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-musicbrainz\fR
don't query MusicBrainz for metadata
.TP
\fB\-\-freedb\-server\fR=\fIHOSTNAME\fR
the FreeDB server name to query for metadata
.TP
\fB\-\-freedb\-port\fR=\fIPORT\fR
the FreeDB port to query for metadata
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-freedb\fR
don't query FreeDB for metadata
.TP
\fB\-D\fR, \fB\-\-default\fR
When multiple metadata choices are available, select the first one automatically. This option has no effect when used with -I
.SH METADATA OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-replay\-gain\fR
add ReplayGain metadata to newly created tracks
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-replay\-gain\fR
do not add ReplayGain metadata to newly created tracks
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
Extract all tracks from the DVD-A on mount point "/media/cdrom" whose DVD-ROM device is "/dev/cdrom"
.IP
dvda2track -c /dev/cdrom -A /media/cdrom/AUDIO_TS/

.SH FORMAT STRING FIELDS
.TS
tab(:);
| c   s |
| c | c |
| r | l |.
_
Template Fields
Key:Value
=
\fC%(track_number)2.2d\fR:the track's number on the CD
\fC%(track_total)d\fR:the total number of tracks on the CD
\fC%(album_number)d\fR:the CD's album number
\fC%(album_total)d\fR:the total number of CDs in the set
\fC%(album_track_number)s\fR:combination of album and track number
\fC%(track_name)s\fR:the track's name
\fC%(album_name)s\fR:the album's name
\fC%(artist_name)s\fR:the track's artist name
\fC%(performer_name)s\fR:the track's performer name
\fC%(composer_name)s\fR:the track's composer name
\fC%(conductor_name)s\fR:the track's conductor name
\fC%(media)s\fR:the track's source media
\fC%(ISRC)s\fR:the track's ISRC
\fC%(catalog)s\fR:the track's catalog number
\fC%(copyright)s\fR:the track's copyright information
\fC%(publisher)s\fR:the track's publisher
\fC%(year)s\fR:the track's publication year
\fC%(date)s\fR:the track's original recording date
\fC%(suffix)s\fR:the track's suffix
\fC%(basename)s\fR:the track's original name, without suffix
_
.TE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR audiotools-config (1),
.BR audiotools.cfg (5),
.BR cdda2track (1),
.BR cddainfo (1),
.BR cddaplay (1),
.BR coverdump (1),
.BR covertag (1),
.BR coverview (1),
.BR dvdainfo (1),
.BR track2cdda (1),
.BR track2track (1),
.BR trackcat (1),
.BR trackcmp (1),
.BR trackinfo (1),
.BR tracklength (1),
.BR tracklint (1),
.BR trackplay (1),
.BR trackrename (1),
.BR tracksplit (1),
.BR tracktag (1),
.BR trackverify (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Brian Langenberger
